# Restaurant-Management-System
This project uses C++ as its programming language. It is a simple restaurant management system covering both admin and customers.




# Details regarding target users
As mentioned above, this system is for both admins and customers.

Admins are personnel employees that manages and uses the restaurant system either for configuration purposes or viewing purposes.

Customers are individuals that wish to place orders through this system.


## Admin Informations:
- Admin Name
- Admin Password

## Customer Informations:
- Customer ID (Autogenerated sequentially)
- Customer Name
- Customer Account Password
- Customer Contact
- Customer Address
- Customer Wallet (Amount of money they have in the system)
- Customer Membership (Whether they subscribed or not)

## Resturant Menu Informations:
- Item ID
- Item Name
- Item Price
- Item Type (Main Dish / Side Dish / Drinks)






# What does it do?
System first ask whether the user wishes to utilize the system as an admin or customer.

## Admin:
- Allow admin to login using their id and password.
- Display a menu for admin to select an action from.
- Allow admin to view customer information
- Allow admin to configure the restaurant menu.
- Configuration includes:
  o Add Menu Items
  o Edit Menu Items
  o Delete Menu Items
- Allow admin to view transaction history for all customer (total transaction & total spent).
- Allow admin to view all and specific transaction for specific customer.
- Allow admin to add new admin accounts.

## Customer:
- Allow customer to either register for a new account, or login if they already have 1.
- Display a menu for customer to select an action from.
- Allow customers to top up their wallet within the system.
- Allow customers to subscribe to a membership
- Allow customers to view the restaurant menu and place orders.
- Allow customer to configure account information.
- Allow customer to view their own transaction history.






# Database -> Text File Format:
## admin_login.txt
- Admin Name
- Admin Password



## customer_login.txt
- Customer ID
- Customer Name
- Customer Password



## customer_info.txt
- Customer ID
- Customer Name
- Customer Address
- Customer Contact Number
- Customer Wallet
- Customer Membership



## transaction.txt
- Transaction ID
- Customer ID
- Total Cost



## transaction_info.txt
- Transaction ID
- Customer Membership
- Total Item Ordered
  - Item ID
  - Item Count Ordered






# How is this project done?
This is my very first C++ project, therefore my code only consist of only 1 file (I apologise for that). However, functions are indeed created and used instead of having just a pile of code. 

Other than that, text files are also used to store information such as admin & customer account information, customer information, transaction information as well as transaction history.

To add on, multiple validations are also done witihn the system. For example:
- Check if user wishes to return / quit
- Check if input is integer
- Check if input is double
- Check if the input is within the system record or not
- Check if input format is correct or not
- many more..... {i think XD)

It is also important to note that this project uses global struct and variables (Not really recommended for security and error prevention purposes, but since its a personal project it should be fine :D ). The global struct saves customer information of the user that just logged in as a customer. 

Furthermore, when reading data from text files, they are first placed within an array first before used to verify / output specific content.







# Experience Gained (Personal note - hehe XD )
Since this is my first C++ project, it really exposed me to the new language and their pros and cons.

Building this system also allow me to strengthen my skills in logical and critical thinking. Allowing me to gain mroe experience and knowledge in creating a system and in maintaining the flow of the system.
